hello everyone
so today i thought i'd sit down with you
guys and chat
through a few more details about my new
job which i'm starting in two weeks time
now
i don't think i've actually shared many
details with you yet other than the fact
that it's in
insurance consulting i'll be taking
exams and studying to become a qualified
actuary
it's at a really large company
have i told you anything else
it's an office job if you have no clue
what an actuary is
don't worry i shall be explaining it in
this video
obviously i haven't started the job yet
i start in two weeks time so
bear that in mind when i'm answering
these questions that i don't know
everything i don't have all the facts
i'm
talking as someone who has researched
the job extensively
looked into the professional law did an
eight-week internship
last year i'd like to think i have some
idea of what i'm letting myself
in for but you know six months down the
line a year down the line i will be
much more of an expert in all of this
i thought i would structure this video
as a
q a so i answer all the questions that
you guys want the answers to
and i asked for questions over on my
instagram earlier this week
and i've got them on my laptop here so
i'm going to be going through as many as
i possibly can
in this video thank you to everyone who
sent them in
and let's get going also like and
subscribe i always forget to say that at
the start of the video but
i would really appreciate it if you like
and subscribe we're going to start
with the obvious question which is what
is an actuary
an actuary is a business professional
who is an expert
in risk management actuaries calculate
risk
using statistics and then communicate
their findings
to other people in simple terms who
don't necessarily have that expertise in
risk basically it's all about studying
historical data
and then using all this information to
create statistical models
using the models to assess the extent of
a risk
and then communicating all this to other
people
working in different business areas okay
the next question
is what is insurance consulting
insurance consulting
is just one area in which actuaries can
work
actuaries can literally work in any
business area that has risk involved but
insurance consulting
is a business area that a lot of
actuaries
working as you might imagine because
insurance
is literally putting financial
safeguards in place
to protect yourself from risk you buy
insurance from insurance companies
there's lots of different types of
insurance life insurance
home insurance pet insurance car
insurance
and some are compulsory some are
optional it all depends what's important
to you
and what circumstances you want to
protect yourself from
as to what insurance products you
purchase for example
car insurance you pay a small amount of
money a premium every year as
car insurance and then if you do get
into a crash into a scrape with your car
and you need your car repaired
and it's a large sum of money needed for
that repair
the insurance company will cover it
because you've been paying them
this premium every year the idea is that
a lot of people will get
car insurance and pay the premiums in
each year
but only a small amount of people will
claim on the insurance
so the insurance company will make a
profit by having
more money coming in from people paying
premiums than they have to pay out
for claims when people need their cars
repaired so that's how insurance and
insurance companies work
now we come to insurance consulting
insurance companies
essentially need to protect themselves
from risk
they don't want a situation where they
have to pay out more in claims
than the money they're getting in from
premiums and so this is where the
actuaries come in the actuaries
try to predict the future they predict
how many claims are going to be made
each year there's kind of two sides to
insurance consulting
actuaries who work in pricing will
believe it or not
advise on the pricing of insurance
products how much
should the premiums be whereas actuaries
who work in reserving will figure out
how much money
should be set aside so that the
insurance company has enough money to
pay out
for the claims when they're made also
the other thing that
actuaries do in insurance consulting is
capital modeling
this is all about analyzing all the
financial risks an insurance company
might face obviously they have the
financial risk
of having to pay out more claims than
anticipated
but there are also other financial risks
associated with
running a company they may have lawsuits
filed against them
their offices could burn down their
expensive i.t
equipment or software could be stolen
these are just examples of risks that
they face
and that is all taken into account in
capital modelling
and there is government legislation as
to how much capital
an insurance company has to have at any
one time
and actuaries will be making sure that
insurance companies are all in line with
government
legislation and yeah advising them on
that i think that was just a very
roundabout way of saying that in
insurance consulting
actuaries use very sophisticated
modeling software
in order to analyze the risk to
insurance companies when
they do their business and of course
within insurance consulting
there's two kind of sides to it there's
life insurance and property and casualty
insurance which is also known as general
insurance
and that's their side i'm going into my
job is
in pnc property and casualty insurance
okay next question is what is your
official title
so my job title is risk analyst
next question is what will you do in the
job
it's probably going to be a lot of
spreadsheets to start off with
i'll be working in small teams but
obviously placed on the
bottom rung of the team to start off
with
so doing all the data processing and all
the
long more tedious work but that's how
everyone starts
and i've got lots to learn i don't know
whether i'm going to be doing
more work on the pricing side or the
reserving side yet i haven't been told
when i was on my internship last year i
sat in the reserving side of the office
but they might switch me when i joined
as a graduate i have no clue
i'll find out on my first day also from
what i saw on the internship
on the reserving side it's definitely a
lot more about
applying logic and analyzing the bigger
picture
rather than number crunching obviously
as an actuary
you have to be good at maths but you
don't sit there just doing maths all day
and i guess in the job i'll be getting
the opportunity to use the company's
modeling software i don't know how fast
they're gonna like push me into it but
it would be good next question is which
city
slash area will you be working in i'm
going to be based in a town called
ryegate although i will sometimes be up
in
the office in london however next
question is
are you working from home and yes i am
initially to be honest i was really
disappointed when i found out that i'd
be
working from home to start off with i
guess starting a graduate job straight
out of uni
is kind of daunting as it is and so
to be starting it from home remotely
as well it's going to be that extra
challenge we haven't been told
how long we're going to be working from
home for
i'm hoping it's only going to be the
first few months
and i can at least go into the office
one or two days a week
at some point next year but honestly i
have no clue
i absolutely understand why the company
hasn't opened their offices yet and it's
the responsible thing to do
in a pandemic i am being sent all the it
equipment i need
so a company laptop a monitor a keyboard
a wired headset so i'm going to have a
proper home
up and the next question is are you
moving for the job
and since i'm working from home to start
off with i'm not moving
immediately i get on well with my
parents they are
more than happy for me to stay in the
house and live with them for the time
being
i just don't see the point in moving
right now and then having to pay
rent every month when i'm literally just
working in my room the whole time i
don't even have to go into an office
i do want to move in the long run my
ideal situation is to find a house share
in ryegate with
other young people my age other young
professionals
and for it to be a very short distance
from the office
okay next question is what subjects
will you be studying so i have mentioned
that i will be
studying alongside my job taking
exams and trying to become a qualified
actor
so the way this works is there's a uk
professional body
called the institute and faculty of
actuaries
it's actually a global body to be fair
because it has members in
other countries around the world as well
but as far as i'm aware uk actuaries
tend to be members of
the ifoa the institute and faculty of
actuaries
and they set the curriculum for the
actuarial qualifications
and the curriculum reflects the skills
knowledge and attributes that are
required of actuaries
there are three components to the
qualification the exams
professionalism and work experience in
the workplace
there's actually two kind of
qualifications you go for
the first one is called an associate
and the second one is called a fellow so
you become an associate after you've
settled the requirements for that but
then if you take more exams and
do more requirements you then become a
fellow and when you
become a fellow you're kind of viewed as
a fully qualified actor
the exams curriculum actually was
reworked last year i believe
but it comprises core modules
which everyone takes actuarial
statistics
actuarial maths business finance and
then when you're working towards
becoming a fellow
you take specialist modules which will
depend on
the line of actuarial work you are in as
someone who is going into insurance
consulting
i will be taking specialist modules in
pricing and reserving
so typically people study for these
actuarial exams while in the job
and that's what i'm doing i will be
given
study days the study package at the
company i'm joining
is really good they pay for all the
exams we sit
and they also pay for study resources
like textbooks
another question i had was typically how
long do
all the exams take it varies some people
get exemptions
from some of the exams since they've
done degrees that
already covered the content in the
curriculum for example
someone who studied actuarial sciences
at university
or even mathematics at university
usually has
some exemptions however a lot of people
do go into the profession with no
exemptions i'm going to be going in with
no exemptions because i did natural
sciences at uni i specialized in physics
and with no exemptions on average it
takes
six to seven years to gain
fellowship and become a qualified actor
which is quite a long time
and it's just because there are a lot of
exams
and the reason it varies is because you
don't always pass
all the exams first time it's quite
common for you to fail at least one or
two exams in your road to qualifying
also people opt to take different
numbers of exams
at each sitting there's two sittings
every year some people might race
through the exams and take lots of the
exams really really quickly
others might take it more slowly and
just do one exam in each sitting
but remember you are working full-time
alongside all these studies so it's not
like you're full-time studying for six
to seven years
actually the bulk of your job is going
to be working on
real life projects working with real
life clients and
getting that hands-on learning
experience next question
does passing actuarial exams from the
ifoa
allow you to get a job anywhere in the
world yes
honestly a big draw of the actuarial
profession for me
is the international opportunities i
know a lot of british actuaries are
currently working abroad the company i'm
actually joining
is a global company and they have
offices all the way around the world
next question what inspired you to
choose this job
career path so i first heard about
actuaries through a longtime friend of
my grandma's
my family knew that i liked maths when i
was
at school and i've always been fairly
good at maths it's always been my
strength
and so they were like oh actuaries do
maths maybe she should look into that
so they took me along to speak to my
grandma's friend one time and i had a
bit of a chat with him about
life as an actuary what actuaries do and
the more i looked into it the more it
appealed to me
lots of people describe it as
challenging work and
i like the sound of that i want to be
stimulated at work
i want an intellectual challenge and
also it involves dealing with a really
wide range of people
with clients with colleagues and i do
love interacting with other people
and it just sounded like it wouldn't be
an isolating job
because that is the one thing i would
hate in a job to be isolated
and i also like the fact that actuaries
are
quite important to society the work of
actuaries
affects all of us you know in pensions
in insurance
as cheesy as it might sound i do want to
make an impact and help society and
i know it is not the same as doing
scientific research and making these
amazing breakthroughs
but the work of actuaries is still very
important
and shouldn't be scoffed at next
question is
how did you land this job is it easier
to get a job with better pay
as a cambridge graduate so last
summer some of you might remember i did
an eight-week
internship at a big company the company
i'm now joining
because at the end of the eight week
internship they offered me a graduate
role
for this september so the team i am now
joining was the team i
did eight weeks in last year so it's
almost like i had a trial run
some would say it was an eight week
interview process because they were
literally
watching the interns for the whole eight
weeks and deciding whether or not they
wanted to offer us a job at the end of
it
but i feel confident that i'm going to
enjoy my time at the company because
i've tried it out before
as for whether it's easier to get a job
with better pay as a cambridge graduate
i'm not sure i mean obviously having
cambridge on a cv
is never going to hurt but i think a lot
of people
think that if you've been to cambridge
or oxford the world is your oyster
you can get a job anywhere i've heard
stories of people who have literally
graduated from cambridge and then been
unemployed
for a few years and they can't find
anything you know it's best not to get
complacent
obviously if you've been to cambridge
you clearly have quite a good work ethic
and i'm sure you're very employable but
a cambridge degree by itself it's not a
golden ticket to
a top job you know you have to work hard
you have to
get on that grind go to interviews apply
for lots of things
especially in these times like the job
market is
not looking too great for graduates at
the moment next question
was it hard to get a job as an actuary
to become an actuary typically
you need a 2-1 at university which i
mean i suppose is hard work you have to
work hard to get that 2-1
it was also quite a lengthy application
process
last year when i was applying for the
internship which eventually landed me
the job i had to do lots of online
assessments
a video interview then typically you get
invited to an assessment center
i fun fact actually was not
able to go to the assessment center for
the internship last year
and i was gutted because i really wanted
this internship but i had a compulsory
lab at university
it was a group thing so i felt like i
couldn't let the rest of my group down
and skip it
but also they only had this one
assessment day and that assessment day
couldn't be moved if i missed the
assessment center you know
i was forfeiting my application so
i actually emailed the company and said
i can't make it and i'm really
disappointed i said is there any
possibility that you could interview me
on another day
didn't hear anything for a few days and
then i got another email back
or maybe they rang me i think they
wronged me because i spoke about it on
vlog
and they said that i could come in for
an interview on a different day
and that would be a real shame if they
never got to see me in person and
interview me
and then i got offered the internship
and you know if i hadn't persisted and
said i was disappointed and i really did
want to be seen and be interviewed
they might not have come to that
conclusion they might not have arranged
a separate interview for me
and that would have been the end of the
application so
it's always worth being pushy and making
yourself known
i think i was very lucky in getting the
internship last year
from what i heard there were a lot of
applications
it was insanely competitive the
conclusion
is it is hard work to get a job as an
actuary
and the application process can be
long but it's worth it and it is very
possible it is very doable to get a job
as an actuary
next question is what skill sets do you
need
okay this is in my opinion i think you
strong mathematical statistical skills
good communication skills
analytical skills and team working
skills next question
is is your job related to the
undergraduate course you pursued at
cambridge
and i know a lot of people have been
commenting on the fact that
it has nothing to do with astrophysics
why would i do a degree in astrophysics
when i'm becoming an actuary now and
let me explain obviously the job does
not have a direct link to what i studied
at cambridge
but these days a degree
is a degree all you need to go into the
actuarial profession
is a numeric degree be it maths physics
economics
you name it you can become a naturally
with that
i think that university is as much about
enjoying yourself and learning something
exciting as it is
about finding something that allows you
to progress to
your dream career and i loved my time at
cambridge i
loved what i studied it was so so
interesting i would never regret
studying that
and you know if you can find a way to
study something you really enjoy
and still progress to a good career then
why not do that the next question is
what made you want to return to the
company
after your internship i think the main
thing
was the atmosphere at the company it was
so
friendly and supportive there also a
nice and relaxed atmosphere
it didn't feel competitive in any way
everyone was happy to help each other
out
and i think a very important part of a
job is the people you work with
and honestly the people were just so
lovely in this
office next question will it not get
boring quite quickly
since it's mostly an office kind of job
there are lots of different types of
jobs
that are office job like there's so many
different varieties of office job i
don't think you can really make
blanket statements about office jobs
some office jobs are clearly boring
and giving it a bad rep but i don't
think
it's going to get boring because the
work is complex it's challenging
i'm going to be interacting with lots of
people every day next question is the
juicy one
it is what's your starting salary it is
31 250 pounds
per year i don't particularly like
talking about money but
as far as starting salaries go this
is pleasing to me
you do get regular salary reviews your
salary is increased every time you pass
exams so
there's quite a good incentive there to
be passing the exams quickly
next question is what are the working
hours like
my contracted hours are seven hours
per day monday to friday however i might
end up working
for slightly longer than those hours but
the hours aren't crazy
i think it's probably 8 30 till six
maybe is what people typically do they
have the mindset
the it's more about getting the work
done than the hours you do
so they just work as long as they have
to to get the work done they have some
busy periods they have some less busy
periods
there was one day on my internship last
year where everyone cleared off to the
pub at lunchtime and didn't come back
and they could do that because they'd
all worked extra hours earlier in the
week and stayed late so it seems quite
flexible
and not unreasonable from what i've
heard there is a good
work-life balance in the actuarial
profession at least
after you've passed your exams okay i
think i'm gonna do one more question
and we're gonna go for what made you
decide to be in consulting
because i mean the the alternative to a
consulting would be
working in an insurance company itself
so the company
i'm at has insurance companies as
clients and they advise the insurance
companies
whereas actually insurance companies
themselves
can employ their own actuaries within
their company
from what i've heard it's quite good to
start your actuarial career
in consulting because you get a much
broader and wider view of the whole
industry but honestly
i applied to consultancies to start off
with because
i knew there were a lot of actuaries
working there and they had
well-established graduate schemes
cool i think i've talked quite enough
for today hopefully that shed some light
on
what i'm going to be getting up to in my
new job which begins very shortly
not gonna lie i think it's gonna be
quite a shock to be going from
this summer where i've not done much at
all i've just been taking my time off
to a full-time job wish me luck
thank you very much for watching this
video give it a like
subscribe to my channel hit the
notification bell
follow my instagram i will definitely do
more q and a's in the future and i'll
ask the questions over there so
follow on instagram if you want to get
involved with that and
yeah i will see you guys soon with
another video
[Music]
bye
you